Macos anka build farm doc 1727 (#684)
harness/developer-hub: docs/continuous-integration/use-ci/set-up-build-infrastructure/define-macos-build-infra-with-anka-registry.md

The following diagram shows how Harness CI and Anka work together. Once you set up the Harness and Anka components, you can easily scale up your build farm with additional templates, build nodes, and VMs. 

![](./static/macos-build-infra-with-anka-registry-mult-nodes.png)

The following steps describe the high-level workflow.

- [Install Anka and create a VM on a Mac node](#install-anka-and-create-a-vm-on-a-mac-node)
- [Set up port forwarding on the VM](#set-up-port-forwarding-on-the-vm)
- [Set up the Anka controller and registry](#set-up-the-anka-controller-and-registry)
- [Install the Harness delegate and runner](#install-the-harness-delegate-and-runner)
- [Set up the Harness runner to communicate with the Anka controller](#set-up-the-harness-runner-to-communicate-with-the-anka-controller)
- [Set up the delegate in the Harness pipeline](#set-up-the-delegate-in-the-harness-pipeline)
- [Add other Mac nodes and VM templates to the Anka registry](#add-other-mac-nodes-and-vm-templates-to-the-anka-registry)
- [Harness runner `pool.yml` example](#harness-runner-poolyml-example)

### Install Anka and create a VM on a Mac node
 

>  The first step is to set up the Anka software on one of your Mac nodes (such as a Mac Mini) and create a VM. For details, go to [Getting Started](https://docs.veertu.com/anka/anka-virtualization-cli/getting-started/) in the Anka documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The first step is to set up the Anka software on one of your Mac nodes (such as a Mac mini) and create a VM. For details, go to [Getting Started](https://docs.veertu.com/anka/anka-virtualization-cli/getting-started/) in the Anka documentation.
```

mini is lowercase in Mac mini (very consistent of them.... 🫠)

 When you finish this workflow, you will have a MacOS node with a working VM. After you set up the Anka registry, you can then push the node and the VM to the registry. 

### Set up port forwarding on the VM
 

>  This enables connectivity between the Harness runner and the VMs. On the VM host, run the following command for each VM template:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Port forwarding enables connectivity between the Harness runner and the VMs. On the VM host, run the following command for each VM template:
```

    anka modify $VM_NAME add port-forwarding service -g 9079

For details, go to [Modifying your VM](https://docs.veertu.com/anka/anka-virtualization-cli/getting-started/modifying-your-vm/) in the Anka documentation.

> ###  Set up the Anka controller and registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###  Set up the Anka controller and registry

```

missing space after

> Set up the Anka registry and controller. For details, go to  [Setting up the Controller & Registry](https://docs.veertu.com/anka/anka-build-cloud/getting-started/setup-controller-and-registry/) in the Anka documentation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set up the Anka registry and controller, as explained in the Anka documentation: [Setting up the Controller & Registry](https://docs.veertu.com/anka/anka-build-cloud/getting-started/setup-controller-and-registry/).
```

When you finish this workflow you will have:

* A running instance of the Anka controller and registry.

* A Mac node (such as a Mac Mini) in the Anka cluster. This node has Anka virtualization software installed. 

* A VM template in the registry. You can use this to create VMs on other nodes as you add them to the cluster. 

:::note
Optionally, you can enable token authentication for the controller and registry as described in [Configuring Token Authentication](https://docs.veertu.com/anka/anka-build-cloud/advanced-security-features/token-authentication) in the Anka documentation.
::: 

> ### Install the Harness delegate and runner
> Set up the Harness delegate and runner.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Install the Harness delegate and runner

Set up the Harness delegate and runner.  
```

It is not immediately clear that the links go to instructions.

You can run your delegate and runner on [Docker](define-a-docker-build-infrastructure.md), [MacOS](./define-macos-build-infra-with-anka-registry.md), [AWS](./set-up-an-aws-vm-build-infrastructure.md), [Azure](./define-a-ci-build-infrastructure-in-azure.md), and [Google Cloud Platform](./define-a-ci-build-infrastructure-in-google-cloud-platform.md) build infrastructures.

### Set up the Harness runner to communicate with the Anka controller

On the Harness runner host, update up your pool.env file shown in the [Drone Runner config example](#harness-runner-poolyml-example) below.

### Set up the delegate in the Harness pipeline

In your Harness Project, go to a pipeline that includes a Build stage.

> In the Infrastructure tab of the Build Stage, define your infrastructure as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **Infrastructure** tab of the **Build** stage, define your infrastructure as follows:
```

* Type = **VMs**
* Pool Name = The `name` field in your `pool.yml` file.
* OS = **MacOS**

Your MacOS build infrastructure is now set up. You can now run your Build stages in your build infrastructure. 

###  Add other Mac nodes and VM templates to the Anka registry

Now that you've gone through the entire end-to-end workflow, you can add more nodes and templates as needed. After you join a node to the cluster, it can pull templates from the registry and use them to create nodes.

:::note
Before you push each VM to the registry, make sure that you enable port forwarding as described in [Set up port forwarding on the VM](#set-up-port-forwarding-on-the-vm) above.
:::

> ### Harness runner `pool.yml` example

Reviewer: Where do they use this in the workflow?

- [YAML config examples](#yaml-config-examples)
  - [Anka controller `docker-compose.yml` example](#anka-controller-docker-composeyml-example)
  - [Harness runner `pool.yml` example](#harness-runner-poolyml-example)

### Install Anka and create a VM on a Mac node
 
 The first step is to set up the Anka software on one of your Mac nodes (such as a Mac Mini) and create a VM. For details, go to [Getting Started](https://docs.veertu.com/anka/anka-virtualization-cli/getting-started/) in the Anka documentation.

 When you finish this workflow, you will have a MacOS node with a working VM. After you set up the Anka registry, you can then push the node and the VM to the registry. 

### Set up port forwarding on the VM
 
 This enables connectivity between the Harness runner and the VMs. On the VM host, run the following command for each VM template:

    anka modify $VM_NAME add port-forwarding service -g 9079

For details, go to [Modifying your VM](https://docs.veertu.com/anka/anka-virtualization-cli/getting-started/modifying-your-vm/) in the Anka documentation.

###  Set up the Anka controller and registry

> Set up the Anka registry and controller on a Linux host. For details, go to  [Setting up the Controller & Registry](https://docs.veertu.com/anka/anka-build-cloud/getting-started/setup-controller-and-registry/) in the Anka documentation. 

Reviewer 2: We should tell users what OS to run the controller/registry on. They can pick whatever they want - linux/Mac

When you finish this workflow you will have:

* An running instance of the Anka controller and registry.

* A Mac node (such as a Mac Mini) in the Anka registry cluster. This node has Anka virtualization software installed. 

> 

Reviewer 2: remove registry - it's just anka cluster.

* A VM template in the registry. You can use this to create VMs on other nodes as you add them to the registry. 

> 

Reviewer 2: as you add them to the cluster.

:::note

> Harness recommends that you also enable token authentication on the registry host. For details, go to [Configuring Token Authentication](https://docs.veertu.com/anka/anka-build-cloud/advanced-security-features/token-authentication) in the Anka documentation.

Reviewer 2: We shouldn't recommend - they can chose to have everything live on a private network therefore no need for auth. Something like - if you wish to enable auth for the controller & registry you can do it here...

::: 

### Install the Harness delegate and runner
Set up the Harness delegate and runner on the same node as your Anka controller and registry or on a separate node. 

> 

Reviewer 2: No - this isn't true. You don't have to run the delegate on the same machine. The delegate and runner can  live on the same machine. As long as the runner can connect the Anka Controller it's all good.

You can run your delegate and runner on [Docker](define-a-docker-build-infrastructure.md), [MacOS](./define-macos-build-infra-with-anka-registry.md), [AWS](./set-up-an-aws-vm-build-infrastructure.md), [Azure](./define-a-ci-build-infrastructure-in-azure.md), and [Google Cloud Platform](./define-a-ci-build-infrastructure-in-google-cloud-platform.md) build infrastructures.

### Update the Anka controller and Harness runner

> Do the following steps.

Reviewer 2: Remove all this - this setup is described in the anka docs.

#### Set up authentication and port mapping on the Anka controller

1. Enable authentication on the Anka controller. 

   This step assumes you have set up root token authentication as described in [Configuring Token Authentication](https://docs.veertu.com/anka/anka-build-cloud/advanced-security-features/token-authentication) (Anka docs).

   Set up these variables to the environment section in the docker-compose.yml file on the controller host:

   * `ANKA_ENABLE_AUTH : true`

   * `ANKA_ROOT_TOKEN` = The root token you specified on the Anka Controller host
 
   * `ANKA_QUEUE_ADDR : 0.0.0.0:9001`  
 
     <!-- TBD clarify -->

2. Add this mapping to the `ports` section of the  docker-compose.yml file:

   `5001:5001` 

[Anka controller `docker-compose.yml` example](#anka-controller-docker-composeyml-example)

#### Set up the Harness runner to communicate with the Anka controller

On the Harness runner host, update up your pool.env file as follows:

``` yaml
  spec: 
    account: 
      username     : $ANKA_CONTROLLER_USERNAME
      password     : $ANKA_CONTROLLER_PASSWORD_OR_TOKEN

>     controller_url : $ANKA_CONTROLLER_URL

Reviewer 2: Incorrect yaml. please see my examples

```

[Drone Runner config example](#harness-runner-poolyml-example)

#### Restart the controller 

> Go back to the the docker-compose.yml folder and restart the controller: **`docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml up -d`**

Reviewer 2: remove

### Set up the delegate in the Harness pipeline

In your Harness Project, go to a pipeline that includes a Build stage.

In the Infrastructure tab of the Build Stage, define your infrastructure as follows:

* Type = **VMs**
* Pool Name = The `name` field in your `pool.yml` file.
* OS = **MacOS**

Your MacOS build infrastructure is now set up. You can now run your Build stages in your build infrastructure. 

###  Add other Mac nodes and VM templates to the Anka registry

Now that you've gone through the entire end-to-end workflow, you can add more nodes and templates as needed. After you join a node to the cluster, it can pull templates from the registry and use them to create nodes.

:::note
Before you push each VM to the registry, make sure that you enable port forwarding as described in [Set up port forwarding on the VM](#set-up-port-forwarding-on-the-vm) above.
:::

### YAML config examples

> #### Anka controller `docker-compose.yml` example

Reviewer 2: remove

``` yaml
version: "2"
services: 
   anka-controller:
     build:
       context: controller
     ports:
       - 80:80
       - 5001:5001
     depends_on:
       - etcd
       - anka-registry
     env_file:
       - controller/controller.env
     restart: always
     environment:
       ANKA_ENABLE_AUTH: "true"
       ANKA_ROOT_TOKEN: $TOKEN
       ANKA_QUEUE_ADDR: 0.0.0.0:9001
   anka-registry:
     build:
       context: registry
     env_file:
       - registry/registry.env
     ports:
       - 8089:8089
     restart: always
     volumes:
       - /var/registry:/mnt/vol
   etcd:
     build:
       context: etcd
     volumes:
       - /var/etcd-data:/etcd-data
     env_file:
       - etcd/etcd.env
     restart: always
  ```

#### Harness runner `pool.yml` example
``` yaml
 - name: anka-build
   default: true
   type: ankabuild
   pool: 1
   limit: 100
   platform:
     os: darwin
     arch: amd64
   spec:
     account:
       username: anka-user
       password: admin
     vm_id: xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxx 
#    node_id: // create pool from specific node

>      controller_url: https://anka-controller.myorg.com:8089 

Reviewer 2: we haven't updated this typo yet so it has to be registry_url but put a note it's the controller url you use.
